---
title: 
author: 
tags: 
Docstring: 
url: 
year: 
date:
  - 09-07-2024
time: 14:39
type: Paper
modified: 2024-08-22
---

# Take-away 🥡

- shielding from external electromagnetic interference is an unsolved issue in non proprietary tech.
- 
# Annotations
## Introduction
> ([[liu2021.pdf#page=2&selection=7,2,9,58&color=yellow|liu2021, p.2]])
> MRI is intrinsically superior to other imaging modalities, because it is non-invasive, non-ionizing, inherently quantitative and multi-parametric

MRI as a technology is non-invasive, non-ionising, inherently quantitative and multi-parametric. Hence, it shows inherently superior properties to other medical imaging technologies. 

> ([[liu2021.pdf#page=2&selection=119,9,128,42&color=yellow|liu2021, p.2]])
> MRI accessibility is low and extremely inhomogeneous around the world. According to the 2020 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) statistics 8 , there are approximately 65,000 installations of MRI scanners worldwide (~7 per million inhabitants) compared to ~200,000 for CT and ~1,500,000 for ultrasound scanners.

Availability for MR imaging is limited to wealthy nations as of the early 2020's. 

> ([[liu2021.pdf#page=2&selection=221,0,231,37&color=yellow|liu2021, p.2]])
> Recently, there has been an impetus to develop low-cost MRI technologies at ultra-low-field (ULF) strengths, i.e., <0.1 T, for truly point-of-care applications.

> ([[liu2021.pdf#page=2&selection=277,2,294,23&color=yellow|liu2021, p.2]])
> In the past two years, intensive ULF MRI developments using permanent magnets (homogenous Halbach 0.05 T 19,20 , double-pole 0.05 T 21 , and rotating inhomogeneous Halbach 0.08 T22 ) are promising. Their results suggest the possibility of generating brain images with low-cost hardware, though the imaging versatility and image quality remain unknown.


> ([[liu2021.pdf#page=2&selection=294,24,300,51&color=yellow|liu2021, p.2]])
> ULF MRI developments eliminate the need for a magnetic shielding cage because of dramatic fringe field reduction, yet they all require the bulky radiofrequency (RF) shielding cage in practice to prevent external electromagnetic interference (EMI) signals during ULF MRI scanning.

> ([[liu2021.pdf#page=2&selection=380,1,438,6&color=yellow|liu2021, p.2]])
> In this study, we report the development and initial clinical demonstration of a permanent magnet-based, low-cost, lowpower, and shielding-free brain ULF MRI scanner. Specifically, we first designed our system around the framework of a homogeneous 0.055 T permanent double-pole magnet and linear imaging gradients. This configuration allows us to form images with various universally adopted contrasts and flexible orientations for clinical brain imaging, including fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) like and diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI).

> ([[liu2021.pdf#page=2&selection=446,6,449,42&color=yellow|liu2021, p.2]])
> Second, we developed a deep learning driven EMI cancellation technique to model, predict and robustly remove the external and internal EMI signals from MRI signals, thus eliminating the traditional RF shielding cage.

> ([[liu2021.pdf#page=2&selection=449,50,467,19&color=yellow|liu2021, p.2]])
> we succeeded in implementing the four essential protocols on this low-cost prototype scanner for clinical brain MRI, namely, T1-weighted (T1W), T2-weighted (T2W), FLAIR-like, and DWI with isotropic diffusion weighting



## Results
> ([[liu2021.pdf#page=3&selection=3,2,8,32&color=yellow|liu2021, p.3]])
> We demonstrated the technical feasibility of a new class of cost-effective MRI technology by designing and constructing a prototype adult brain ULF MRI scanner that operates on a standard alternating current (AC) wall power outlet (two-phase 220V 15A) in absence of any RF and magnetic shielding cages.

> ([[liu2021.pdf#page=3&selection=160,53,165,59&color=yellow|liu2021, p.3]])
> To tackle the EMI signals from the external environments and internal lowcost electronics during scanning, we developed a deep learning driven EMI cancellation scheme (Fig. 2). In unshielded environments, EMI signal can change dynamically during scanning due to surrounding EMI sources of various nature and behaviors.

> ([[liu2021.pdf#page=4&selection=0,14,9,24&color=red|liu2021, p.4]])
> Signals detected by these EMI sensing coils and main MRI receive coil within EMI signal characterization window retrospectively trained a convolutional neural network (CNN) model. This model could then predict the EMI signal component in MRI receive coil signal for each frequency encoding (FE) line within MRI signal acquisition window based on the EMI signals simultaneously detected by EMI sensing coils. This predicted EMI signal component was subsequently subtracted or removed from the MRI receive coil signals, creating EMI-free k-space data prior to image reconstruction 

> ([[liu2021.pdf#page=4&selection=41,1,46,24&color=yellow|liu2021, p.4]])
> The performance of this deep learning EMI cancellation procedure was also experimentally compared to the ground truth scenario where a RF shielding cage was employed to fully enclose the subject during scanning. With results being within a 5% range of shielded approaches.

> ([[liu2021.pdf#page=4&selection=62,0,73,4&color=yellow|liu2021, p.4]])
> the most valuable and universally adopted protocols in clinical brain imaging workflows are T1W, T2W, FLAIR, and DWI 31–34 , which presently account for the majority of clinical brain MRI scan


> ([[liu2021.pdf#page=5&selection=60,0,82,44&color=yellow|liu2021, p.5]])
> compared with high-field images, less gray matter and white matter contrast was observed in these T1W, FLAIR and DWI images, likely because of decreased gray and white matter contrast, increased noise level and strong partial volume effect associated with large voxel size at 0.055 T.

> ([[liu2021.pdf#page=6&selection=70,0,77,17&color=yellow|liu2021, p.6]])
> We found that 0.055 T ULF images produced findings highly like those obtained with 3 T MRI. Our 0.055 T ULF MRI scanner detected most key pathologies (i.e., the characteristics of signal changes at pathological regions across different contrasts) in 25 patients studied.

## Discussion

> ([[liu2021.pdf#page=10&selection=134,2,155,19&color=yellow|liu2021, p.10]])
> We and others showed that the presence of paramagnetic (i.e., titanium and titanium alloys) and ferromagnetic (i.e., cobalt, nickel and associated alloys) materials in aneurysm clips and cerebrovascular stents did not induce gross artifacts in the 0.05 T46 and 0.055 T images 

## Challenges
> ([[liu2021.pdf#page=11&selection=47,2,54,65&color=yellow|liu2021, p.11]])
> Key technical challenges in ULF MRI are the adequate image SNR, contrast, and resolution achievable within a reasonable scan time. At present, though partly alleviated by increased acquisition efficiency due to generally shorter T1 values, image SNR, contrast, and resolution at 0.055 T may be still too low for robust clinical applications.

> ([[liu2021.pdf#page=11&selection=54,66,57,10&color=red|liu2021, p.11]])
> The ability of ULF MRI to differentiate various tissues and pathologies ultimately depends on the contrast to noise ratio and image resolution


> ([[liu2021.pdf#page=11&selection=148,26,187,35&color=yellow|liu2021, p.11]])
> we can exploit omnipresent mutual anatomical features across human brains. Conventional MRI data acquisition and image reconstruction procedures do not utilize any prior information on human anatomy. Thus, the genetically pre-defined and highly homogenized human brain anatomical information has been completely neglected in past MRI formation process, yet it can be potentially utilized to intelligently drive and drastically enhance MRI data acquisition, image reconstruction, and clinical utility to expedite MRI scan and tackle the low SNR challenge at ULF

> ([[liu2021.pdf#page=11&selection=232,21,273,50&color=yellow|liu2021, p.11]])
> Second, we predict the ULF MRI scanner will be ideally light and mobile to facilitate point-of-care applications. Our present prototype scanner was relatively heavy with magnet assembly weighting ~750 kg though we expect that it can be readily reduced to ~500 kg or less through design optimization based on our preliminary simulations.
