---
title: 
author: 
tags: 
Docstring: 
url: 
year: 
date:
  - 20-06-2024
time: 10:45
type: Paper
modified: 2024-06-20
---

# Take-away 🥡

# Annotations

> [!PDF|yellow] [[parr2018.pdf#page=3&selection=12,0,14,34&color=yellow|parr2018, p.3]]
> > matrix calculus, the shotgun wedding of linear algebra and multivariate calculus.
> 
> Love it

> [!PDF|yellow] [[parr2018.pdf#page=4&selection=65,9,66,83&color=yellow|parr2018, p.4]]
> > we really need general rules for the derivative of a function with respect to a vector and even rules for the derivative of a vector-valued function with respect to a vector.

> [!PDF|yellow] [[parr2018.pdf#page=5&selection=248,0,283,2&color=yellow|parr2018, p.5]]
> > You can think of d dx as an operator that maps a function of one parameter to another function. That means that d dx f (x) maps f (x) to its derivative with respect to x, which is the same thing as df (x) dx . 

> [!PDF|yellow] [[parr2018.pdf#page=5&selection=423,2,436,3&color=yellow|parr2018, p.5]]
> > We compute derivatives with respect to one variable (parameter) at a time, giving us two different partial derivatives for this twoparameter function (one for x and one for y). 

> [!PDF|yellow] [[parr2018.pdf#page=6&selection=192,0,198,37&color=yellow|parr2018, p.6]]
> > So the gradient of f (x, y) is simply a vector of its partials.

> [!PDF|yellow] [[parr2018.pdf#page=6&selection=318,0,323,0&color=yellow|parr2018, p.6]]
> > Gradient vectors organize all of the partial derivatives for a specific scalar function. If we have two functions, we can also organize their gradients into a matrix by stacking the gradients. When we do so, we get the Jacobian matrix
> 
> 

> [!PDF|yellow] [[parr2018.pdf#page=9&selection=1,79,3,83&color=yellow|parr2018, p.9]]
> >  That is a generally useful trick: Reduce vector expressions down to a set of scalar expressions and then take all of the partials, combining the results appropriately into vectors and matrices at the end.

> [!PDF|yellow] [[parr2018.pdf#page=10&selection=0,29,1,35&color=yellow|parr2018, p.10]]
> > ortunately the Jacobian is very often a diagonal matrix, a matrix that is zero everywhere but the diagonal

> [!PDF|yellow] [[parr2018.pdf#page=10&selection=41,3,84,71&color=yellow|parr2018, p.10]]
> > Under what conditions are those off-diagonal elements zero? Precisely when fi and gi are contants with respect to wj , ∂ ∂wj fi(w) = ∂ ∂wj gi(x) = 0. Regardless of the operator, if those partial derivatives go to zero, the operation goes to zero, 0 © 0 = 0 no matter what, and the partial derivative of a constant is zero.

