---
title: 2023-06-26
date: 2023-06-26
time: 10:54
author: Luca Trautmann
meditation: 1
exercise: 1
chess: 1
---
```ActivityHistory
/
```
# Report
## Achievements
Today I was able to get a simple training loop up and running and managed to refactor the progress I have made so far in the project into python files. I now have a pipeline for the audio file preprocessing, all the necessary blocks built that have been referenced in the paper, as well as a training loop and a visualisation function that will allow me to see what my model is doing. I think the hard part is starting now. 


## Difficulties
I will have to do more work on the architecture in the future as the model I am building now is not really capable of doing anything useful besides creating shades on a canvas that resemble the input shades. I also need to speed up my work. I am not quite sure what I am doing at the moment and I feel like I need a better plan an a more concrete structure to go forward so that I can complete the thesis in time and get an acceptable result. I have almost spent 50% of the time and I am nowhere near any acceptable alpha model. I don't want to stress to much about it, but I need to put my foot down and work harder. 


## Things to Remember
- [x] How do I want to concretely progress in the next two weeks (goals, soft deadlines) 📅 2023-06-27 ✅ 2023-06-27
- [x] Answer Arie and thank him for his support 📅 2023-06-27 ✅ 2023-07-04
- [x] Memory issue 📅 2023-06-27 ✅ 2023-06-27
- [x] Ask Ivor concrete questions about the current progress 📅 2023-06-27 ✅ 2023-06-27