---
title: 2023-07-15
date: 2023-07-15
time: 21:10
author: Luca Trautmann
meditate:
exercise:
chess: 
---
```ActivityHistory
/
```
# Report
## Achievements
Today, I made progress on my project by completing several tasks. I started by reorganising the repository to ensure a more structured and organised codebase. Additionally, I successfully implemented the fully phaseGAN architecture, which will be beneficial for my audio signal processing tasks. Lastly, I reached out to Astrid, an expert in audio signal processing, to discuss certain aspects of my project and gain valuable insights. Overall, I made significant strides in my project today and accomplished important milestones._

## Difficulties
## New issues:
- complex valued spectrograms require complex valued weights 
- requires torchcomplex package - requires change in ReLU
- requires training on CUDA as there is no support for MPS

Today, I encountered several new issues while working on my project. Firstly, I discovered that complex-valued spectrograms require complex-valued weights. To address this, I will need to incorporate the `torchcomplex` package into my code, which provides support for complex numbers in PyTorch. Additionally, I realized that the ReLU activation function in PyTorch only supports real numbers by default. To handle complex-valued inputs, I will need to modify the ReLU function using the `torchcomplex` package. Furthermore, I learned that training on CUDA is necessary for improved performance, but unfortunately, there is no support for Multi-Process Service (MPS) in PyTorch. Lastly, I will need to consider alternative frameworks or libraries if MPS support is crucial for my project.



## Things to Remember
- I added the time stamp short cut to always add the date and time 